readme.md, before:

# Akkoma Blog - Federated Blog from Akkoma

kkoma Blog (OpLog) is a static site generator that fetches blog posts from your Akkoma/Pleroma/Mastodon feed and renders them using Eleventy (11ty). It creates a beautiful, fast, and SEO-friendly blog from your ActivityPub content.

![OpLog Screenshot](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/hotheadhacker/akkoma-blog/main/screenshots/1.png)

## Live Demo

Visit [oplog.isalman.dev](https://oplog.isalman.dev) to see OpLog in action.

## Features

- **Federated Content**: Automatically pulls posts from your Akkoma/Pleroma/Mastodon account
- **Media Support**: Properly displays images, videos, and embedded content
- **Responsive Design**: Looks great on all devices with dark mode support
- **Fast & SEO-friendly**: Static site with excellent performance and SEO
- **Automatic Updates**: GitHub Actions workflow fetches new posts every 6 hours
- **Zero Backend**: No server-side code or database required

## Quick Start

1. Fork this repository
2. Update the configuration in `utils/fetch-posts.js` with your Akkoma instance and username
3. Enable GitHub Pages in your repository settings
4. Your blog will be automatically built and deployed

## Configuration

### Basic Configuration

Edit `utils/fetch-posts.js` to set your Akkoma instance and username:

```javascript
const AKKOMA_INSTANCE = 'social.example.com';
const AKKOMA_USER = 'yourusername';
```

### Customization

- **Site Title/Description**: Edit `_data/site.json`
- **Styling**: Modify `css/style.css`
- **Templates**: Update files in `_includes/layouts/`

## Local Development

```bash
# Install dependencies
npm install

# Fetch posts from your Akkoma instance
npm run fetch-posts

# Start development server
npm run start
```

## Deployment

OpLog is designed to be deployed to GitHub Pages. The included GitHub Actions workflow will:

1. Fetch your latest posts from Akkoma
2. Build the site with Eleventy
3. Deploy to GitHub Pages

The workflow runs automatically:
- When you push changes to the main branch
- Every 6 hours to fetch new posts
- When manually triggered from the Actions tab

## Customizing Your Blog

### Site Information

Edit `_data/site.json` to update your site's title, description, and other metadata.

### Styling

The blog uses a clean, minimal design that you can customize by editing `css/style.css`.

### Templates

The blog templates are in the `_includes/layouts` directory:
- `base.njk`: The main layout template
- `post.njk`: Individual post template
- `index.njk`: Home page template

## Media Handling

OpLog includes special handling for various media types:
- Images with lightbox functionality
- Responsive video embeds
- Audio players
- Automatic gallery creation for multiple consecutive images

## Contributing

Contributions are welcome! Please feel free to submit a Pull Request.

## License

This project is licensed under the MIT License - see the LICENSE file for details.

## Acknowledgments

- Built with [Eleventy](https://www.11ty.dev/)
- Powered by [Akkoma](https://akkoma.social/) and the [ActivityPub](https://activitypub.rocks/) protocol

Commit message:

feat: add fediverse instance context to live demo link
The live demo link in the README now includes context about the fediverse instance it's based on. This provides users with more information about the demo environment.

readme.md, after:

# Akkoma Blog - Federated Blog from Akkoma

kkoma Blog (OpLog) is a static site generator that fetches blog posts from your Akkoma/Pleroma/Mastodon feed and renders them using Eleventy (11ty). It creates a beautiful, fast, and SEO-friendly blog from your ActivityPub content.

![OpLog Screenshot](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/hotheadhacker/akkoma-blog/main/screenshots/1.png)

## Live Demo

Visit [oplog.isalman.dev](https://oplog.isalman.dev) to see OpLog in action. This is based on my fedirated instance [social.isalman.dev](https://social.isalman.dev)

## Features

- **Federated Content**: Automatically pulls posts from your Akkoma/Pleroma/Mastodon account
- **Media Support**: Properly displays images, videos, and embedded content
- **Responsive Design**: Looks great on all devices with dark mode support
- **Fast & SEO-friendly**: Static site with excellent performance and SEO
- **Automatic Updates**: GitHub Actions workflow fetches new posts every 6 hours
- **Zero Backend**: No server-side code or database required

## Quick Start

1. Fork this repository
2. Update the configuration in `utils/fetch-posts.js` with your Akkoma instance and username
3. Enable GitHub Pages in your repository settings
4. Your blog will be automatically built and deployed

## Configuration

### Basic Configuration

Edit `utils/fetch-posts.js` to set your Akkoma instance and username:

```javascript
const AKKOMA_INSTANCE = 'social.example.com';
const AKKOMA_USER = 'yourusername';
```

### Customization

- **Site Title/Description**: Edit `_data/site.json`
- **Styling**: Modify `css/style.css`
- **Templates**: Update files in `_includes/layouts/`

## Local Development

```bash
# Install dependencies
npm install

# Fetch posts from your Akkoma instance
npm run fetch-posts

# Start development server
npm run start
```

## Deployment

OpLog is designed to be deployed to GitHub Pages. The included GitHub Actions workflow will:

1. Fetch your latest posts from Akkoma
2. Build the site with Eleventy
3. Deploy to GitHub Pages

The workflow runs automatically:
- When you push changes to the main branch
- Every 6 hours to fetch new posts
- When manually triggered from the Actions tab

## Customizing Your Blog

### Site Information

Edit `_data/site.json` to update your site's title, description, and other metadata.

### Styling

The blog uses a clean, minimal design that you can customize by editing `css/style.css`.

### Templates

The blog templates are in the `_includes/layouts` directory:
- `base.njk`: The main layout template
- `post.njk`: Individual post template
- `index.njk`: Home page template

## Media Handling

OpLog includes special handling for various media types:
- Images with lightbox functionality
- Responsive video embeds
- Audio players
- Automatic gallery creation for multiple consecutive images

## Contributing

Contributions are welcome! Please feel free to submit a Pull Request.

## License

This project is licensed under the MIT License - see the LICENSE file for details.

## Acknowledgments

- Built with [Eleventy](https://www.11ty.dev/)
- Powered by [Akkoma](https://akkoma.social/) and the [ActivityPub](https://activitypub.rocks/) protocol
